This lecture is about regular expressions.
We've already seen how the text
functions sub, gsub and grab can be
used to manipulate strings and identify
patterns that might be of interest.
In this lecture we'll talk about regular
expressions which extends the idea
of searching for a specific bit of text,
to searching for
a bit of text that might
fit a more broad pattern.
Regular expressions can be thought
of as a combination of literals and
metacharacters.
So to draw an analogy to natural language,
think of literal text
forming the words of the language and
the metacharacters defining its grammar.
Regular expressions have a rich
set of metacharacters that allow
us to search through strings to identify
specific patterns of interest that
might be very hard to
identify with literals.
So here's an example of
what I mean by literals.
So literals consist of
words that match exactly.
So for example, the literal nuclear
would match all of these lines because
nuclear appears here in this line.
Nuclear appears here in this line,
here in this line, here in this line,
and here in this line.
So that's the exact letters match
in all of those different lines.
The literal Obama would match all of
these lines because it appears here,
it appears here, it appears here,
it appears here, and it appears here.
So you can find it each one
of these different lines and
you can actually match
exactly what you observed.
Regular expressions consists in
the simplest form of only literals.
A match occurs only if the exact
sequence of literals occurs
anywhere in the text being tested.
But what if we only want the word Obama,
or sentences that end in the word
Clinton or clinton, or some other
much smaller phrase, like clinto?
We need a way to express whitespace and
word boundaries, sets of literals,
the beginning and end of a line, or maybe
alternatives, things like war or peace.
And so, what we're gonnq use here are
metacharacters in order to specify these
more general search terms that
we'd like to be able to identify.
So some metacharacters
represent the start of a line.
So for example,
if you have a ^ followed by i think,
it will match the start of
a line followed by i think.
So that will match all of these lines,
i think we all rule for participating,
and so forth.
But it wouldn't match necessarily if the i
think came somewhere in the middle of
the line.
$ represents the end of the line,
so for example,
if you have the phrase morning$, then
that will match all of the lines here,
because morning is
the last word in the line.
However, if morning was a word that
appeared only in the middle of the text,
it wouldn't match.
We can also consider lists or
sets of characters that will be accepted
at any given point in the match.
So for example, you might have
either a lower case or a capital B,
either a lower case or a capital U,
either a lower case or
upper case S, and
either a lower case or capital H.
So that will match all
versions of the word Bush
regardless of which
letters are capitalized.
So for example, this version has a capital
B, this version has all lower case values.
This version also has
all lower case values.
Here we have another upper case value,
and another upper case value.
So, it will match any of those because
it will match both lower case and
upper case at every possible letter.
The next things that you can do is you
can start combining these together.
So for example, you can say,
I wanna look at the beginning of the line
to see either a capital I or
a lowercase i.
So that will either match lines like
this where is the lowercase i or
capital I to begin
the line followed by am.
So what it does it will allows the
beginning, the start of the line either
one of the lower case or
the capital I and then the literal am.
The other thing that you can do is you can
specify actually range of characters, or
range of letters.
So if you put in square brackets a-z,
that will match any letter
from a to z that's lower case.
If you do a-z lowercase or
A-Z uppercase, it
will actually look for any of the letters
whether they're uppercase or lowercase.
So for example,
if you make this search right here,
it's gonna start at the beginning of
the line, and it's gonna look for
a number between 0 and
9 followed by any letter.
So it will match any
of these lines because
each of the lines starts with a number
at the beginning of the line and
is followed by a letter as
the next letter in the line.
Used in the beginning of a character
class the ^ is also a metacharacter and
indicates that it should match any of
the characters not in the indicated class.
So for example here we're looking
at the end of the line with the $.
And we're looking for any line that
ends in anything other than a period or
a question mark.
Cuz this means either a period or
a question mark, and
this caret means that it's not
either of those two characters, so
it'll match all of these lines, because
most of them don't have any punctuation,
and some have exclamation
points at the end.